Add a FMS entry for disabling features (#79645)
CleverRaven/Cataclysm-DDA: doc/FREQUENTLY_MADE_SUGGESTIONS.md

Again, we do not want to make the game worse with this - there are some unavoidable problems caused by this migration, but after it is done, not only it would be easier to contribute for everyone, but the game would work better, and maybe even faster.

### Options

#### We should be able to disable features we don't want (portal storms, etc.): No.

Simply put, features make it into the game because they are desired features which contribute to the game's intended direction.

> Features are shipped in stable versions when they are deemed to be in a good enough state. Features in experimental may come with bugs, severe balance issues, so on. That is the nature of experimental.

Reviewer: I don't think this reflects reality?
The wording implies that features get *ported* from experimental to stable, when in fact stable branch gets created at an arbitrary point in time, and gets polished from there. Which might lead to the same eventual outcome ("features in stable are in good state"), but that's still different.

Author: There are selective reverts for stable or other patching mechanisms if we're not happy with how the feature works. See for example #74492

While this is not *technically* the same thing as "It will not be put onto the stable branch" it is effectively the same thing, in that the reader (the stable player) will only experience the features if we think they're in a good enough state.

Reviewer: I stand by the fact that the current wording is disingeneous and misleading.

You don't need to explain how git works - you can put it in lay terms. Something like "A stable version is only released/is only declared as "stable" once we are satisfied with the state of all the features within"

> Features are shipped in stable versions when they are deemed to be in a good enough state. Features in experimental may come with bugs, severe balance issues, so on. That is the nature of experimental.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 Features in experimental may come with bugs, severe balance issues, so on. That is the nature of experimental. Making them optional reduces the value of including them in experimental.
```

> Disabling features means they do not get worked on and there is no reason for developers to work on them, because the features will simply be disabled. There are several historical in-repo examples of this: Wandering hordes is a good one. Wandering hordes is one of the oldest game features, dating back almost as far as C:DDA's fork from the original Cataclysm. Wandering hordes is disabled by default, and as a consequence has several known major issues which have not seen any developer time in years. The presence of those major issues precludes removing the option, and the fact it's an option precludes people from working on it (nobody would see their changes without specifically opting in). 

Reviewer: > Disabling features means they do not get worked on and there is no reason for developers to work on them, because the features will simply be disabled.

That's only true for features disabled by default opt-in features.
This is not applicable to features that are enabled by default but are opt-out. So it is not really super relevant to the header this is put under ("We should be able to disable features we don't want")

Reviewer 3: I think the railways or limb mod might be a better example.

Reviewer 4: I think both hordes and railmod/limbs are good examples

Reviewer: They are both examples of an opt-*in* mod.
But this FMS entry is titled as if it's talking about opt-*out* mods.

I would guess this PR is spurred by the current Riot Damage fallout, and people asking for Riot Damage to be opt-out. If implemented like that (on by default, but you have a mod/config setting/whatever to turn it off), then the listed argument would not apply. Riot Damage would still get worked on, because it's default-enabled and highly visible and affects everyone - you either have it active in your game, or you explicitly disabled it. Either way you are aware of the feature existence and/or its problems.

Reviewer 5: Opt-out mods can easily become standard among the player community by way of "oral tradition" and presumptions of what they do and do not remove, as opposed to being enabled in response to what a player personally experiences.

Reviewer: > Opt-out mods can easily become standard among the player community by way of "oral tradition" and presumptions of what they do and do not remove

That needs to be spelled out then.
And once that's spelled out, it becomes obvious that it is a rather hypothetical scenario, which *severely* weakens the whole argument.

Right now there are no mods that are considered "standard among the player community". There's no reason to think any feauture opt-out will become such.  There's just way too much friction in disabling default features. And the communiuty is too big and split to have any sort of "standard".
And if those opt-outs *do* become "standard" to the point that it affects significant portion of developers - then it should be caught as being such, and addressed one way or another (either by finding volunteers to get them to a reasonable state or by declaring them not-ready and disabling them)

>Limbs were at one point not opt-in, and were changed to be opt-in, 

.. like that ^. This is a great example of the system working as desired. Some features will inevitably not be great for one reason or another. If we notice that the feature is not working out we can either temporarily disable it (with the understanding that, yes, it effectively means abandoning it), or rip it out completely in code (which would probably have happened if the limbs were not a "disableable" feature). And that's okay.

----

Back to my original point: I don't really have a horse in this race, I'm not saying that opt-in/opt-out features are good or bad. I'm only saying that the argument as written is *unconvincing*, and I would recommend against including it in FMS in the present state since that weakens the document as a whole.

Author: > Right now there are no mods that are considered "standard among the player community". There's no reason to think any feauture opt-out will become such. There's just way too much friction in disabling default features. And the communiuty is too big and split to have any sort of "standard".
>
>And if those opt-outs do become "standard" to the point that it affects significant portion of developers - then it should be caught as being such, and addressed one way or another (either by finding volunteers to get them to a reasonable state or by declaring them not-ready and disabling them)

People still get regularly upset in the devcord about skill rust.

The option to disable skill rust was removed two years ago, before 0.G. *After* skill rust was changed to be a whole benefit.

So if the hypothetical "standard" is to disable skill rust, despite it being wholly beneficial and doing everything that people ask it to do, what are you supposed to do at that point?

There is truly no point in trying to assuage opinions based on misinformation and misunderstanding.

Reviewer: > People still get regularly upset in the devcord about skill rust.
> The option to disable skill rust was removed two years ago, before 0.G. After skill rust was changed to be a whole benefit.

This only indicates that people want to disable skill rust (ignoring the fact that they are misinformed and shouldn't want it). It would not be a standard way to play even if we did have the option to disable it. Unless, of course, people with fancy colored names start pitching that as a default way to play, but at that point we should be aware of the issue.

> what are you supposed to do at that point?
Let them disable it? Yes, that's a silly thing to want, but there's no harm, certainly not in a way stated in this PR.
Like, Innawoods effectively disables [humanoid] *zombies* which are arguably the core of the game, and it's also a silly thing to want. But Innawwods is a nice and well-liked mod, and not a problem! But it's also not a default way to play, despite being great.

*YOU* personally don't need to add a way to disable things if you don't want, but if there's a willing maintainer that wants to keep the anti-feature up and running, there should not be any issue with that.

> This is a catch-22, and clearly bad for development. The only reason wandering hordes currently has a toggle is that it was a legacy decision, implemented well before this current policy was written down.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is a catch-22, and clearly bad for development. The only reason wandering hordes currently has a toggle is that it was a legacy decision, implemented well before this current policy was decided.
```
